<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html
    xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
    xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
    xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
    xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
    xmlns:a4j="http://richfaces.org/a4j"
    xmlns:rich="http://richfaces.org/rich"
    xml:lang="en">

    <ui:composition>
		<h2>
			TAIR Funding Crisis (10/16/2009)
		</h2>
        <p class="lineToppedParagraph">
            Dear TAIR user community,
        </p>
        <p>
            As some of you may already have heard, our previous five year NSF grant supporting TAIR ended on August 31 2009. Many
            of you wrote individual letters in support of continued TAIR funding or signed a joint letter with others; those that
            were received by June 2 were forwarded by the TAIR Advisory Board to the relevant NSF program directors (ABI and 2010
            programs). I want to express my sincere thanks to all of you for the strong display of community support. However, an
            NSF policy against considering such evidence in funding decisions prevented the program officers from reading the
            letters until after the TAIR renewal decision was final. The TAIR project did obtain a renewal from NSF that provides
            level funding for the current year (September 2009 - August 2010) followed by
            <strong>steeply decreasing budgets (75%, 50% and 25% of the current year)</strong> for the remaining three years.
            There is currently no funding mechanism in place at NSF for ongoing operational costs of long term data resources like
            TAIR.
        </p>
        <p>
            NSF has strongly encouraged TAIR to seek funding from other sources, including subscription fees for companies and/or
            academic labs and funding from other US agencies or other countries. TAIR currently serves a fourfold role as data
            producer, portal for data access, permanent data archive, and leader in biological data curation methods. A change in
            our funding model could have wide-ranging effects on how we operate (including our ability to export gene structure
            and function data to other resources such as NCBI, SIGnAL, UniProt, etc.); therefore it is essential that the impact
            is carefully considered before a new funding strategy is implemented.
        </p>
        <p>
            NSF and the Multinational Arabidopsis Steering Committee (MASC) will be organizing workshops to gather community input
            on the database and informatics needs of the Arabidopsis community within the next several months. NSF has left open
            the possibility that its current lack of a stable funding mechanism for long-term research infrastructure projects
            like TAIR may be reconsidered in the future. Workshops will be held in early spring 2010 in the U.K. and in early
            summer 2010 in the USA. Recommendations from the workshops will be presented to participants of the next Arabidopsis
            conference in Japan. If you are invited to a workshop, I encourage you to participate in this important discussion of
            priorities and needs, and to make your views known to any colleagues who attend.
        </p>
        <p>
            The steep reduction in funding for TAIR requires that we either scale back our work to a corresponding degree or
            obtain funding from other sources.
            <strong>The funding reduction will begin strongly impacting TAIR's activities in September 2010.</strong> A public
            discussion is urgently needed on community bioinformatics needs, TAIR's role in fulfilling these needs and viable
            funding strategies for this type of resource. It is essential that this discussion include the viewpoints of plant
            biology researchers, educators and students from around the world.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a href="#comment_anchor"><strong class="emphasis">To make your voice heard, please add a comment at the
                    bottom of this page</strong> </a> expressing your views on (1) the bioinformatics needs of the Arabidopsis and wider plant
            biology communities and (2) how resources like TAIR should be funded. It is important that we hear from a variety of
            people in the USA and from other countries including wet lab researchers, computational biologists, researchers
            working on crop plants or basic biological questions, students and teachers, and those working within a company as
            well as those in academic institutions.
        </p>
        <p>
            In addition, if you use TAIR for your research, please do one or more of the following in your publications:
        </p>
        <ul>
            <li>
                Cite the most recent
                <a href="http://arabidopsis.org/about/citingtair.jsp">TAIR publication</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                Acknowledge TAIR (
                <a href="http://arabidopsis.org">http://arabidopsis.org</a>) as a source of data in your methods section
            </li>
            <li>
                Include TAIR (
                <a href="http://arabidopsis.org">http://arabidopsis.org</a>) in your acknowledgement section.
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p>
            Best regards,
        </p>
        <p>
            Eva Huala,
            <br />
            TAIR Director
        </p>
    </ui:composition>
</html>