<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:a4j="http://richfaces.org/a4j"
	xmlns:rich="http://richfaces.org/rich" xml:lang="en">

	<ui:composition>
		<span class="mainheader">TAIR Funding Updates and Discussion
			Forum</span>
		<br />
		<a href="#comment_anchor">Jump to Comments</a>
		<h2>
			TAIR plans for transition to IAIC (8/31/2011)
		</h2>
		<h:form>
			<a4j:outputPanel id="IaicPanel">
				<p>
					Dear TAIR community,
				</p>
				<p>
					As many of you are aware, funding for TAIR will end on August 31
					2013. An International Arabidopsis Informatics Consortium (IAIC,
					http://www.arabidopsis.org/portals/masc/IAIC.jsp) has been
					organized to develop a new informatics infrastructure. The TAIR
					team will be working within this consortium to help develop the
					next generation of informatics tools and resources for the
					community. The IAIC has tentatively planned a "design workshop" for
					December 11th to 14th to develop implementation and funding plans
					for this new infrastructure. This workshop will include individuals
					with a broad range of expertise; interested individuals can contact
					the consortium at arabidopsisinformatics@gmail.com.
				</p>
				<p>
					Future updates on the TAIR to IAIC transition will be posted in our
					breaking news section. Although we will do our best to keep TAIR
					updated and accessible over the final two years we ask for your
					patience and understanding as our declining funding will limit our
					efforts to the most essential tasks. Please contact us at
					curator@arabidopsis.org with any questions.
				</p>
				<p>
					Eva Huala (TAIR) and Blake Meyers (IAIC)
				</p>
				<hr
					style="border: 0; height: 2px; color: #D6D6D6; background-color: #D6D6D6;" />
			</a4j:outputPanel>
		</h:form>
		<h2>
			TAIR launches new corporate sponsorship program (7/23/2010)
		</h2>
		<h:form>
			<a4j:outputPanel id="sponsorshipPanel">
				<p>
					Dear TAIR user community,
				</p>
				<p>
					To help us through the current funding crisis we recently
					established a new TAIR corporate sponsorship program. We feel that
					this approach is preferable to implementing a subscription
					requirement for the private sector because it will allow us to keep
					TAIR open and free of login requirements, facilitating the free
					exploration of data by all scientists. Two companies (Dow
					AgroSciences and Syngenta) and one research organization (Gregor
					Mendel Institute) have already become TAIR sponsors. More
					information can be found on our
					<a href="/doc/about/tair_sponsorship/412">sponsorship page.</a>
				</p>
				<hr
					style="border: 0; height: 2px; color: #D6D6D6; background-color: #D6D6D6;" />
			</a4j:outputPanel>
		</h:form>
	</ui:composition>
</html>
